Today we will go deeper into one
of Michael Porter's generic
strategies, in this case the
segmentation strategy.
Well, first, there may be people
who call it segmentation strategy,
focus strategy, niche strategy,
in English for example
they call it focus strategy.
Well, the main criterion, which
you should already know, of the
segmentation strategy is that
we focus on a specific customer
segment.
Remember that competitors who
choose cost leadership by
differentiation are
usually larger companies,
which do it to target
all or almost all segments
of a market.
Eye, they don't have to go to all
segments with the same proposal,
they are companies that may
have segmented, but in the end
what they do is go to everyone,
right?
What we are doing today
is focusing on one of
the areas.
The word focus I think is the most
important word that helps us
understand this type of strategy.
And look, here we have to keep in
mind that when we talk about focus
we can really define it from different
perspectives.
I think from three.
You can focus on one of the
demographic segments
and I'll give you an example.
Mercedes is a clear competitor of
differentiation that offers a
lot of value but that is aimed
at all customer segments because
it has cars for families, for
young people, etc. of all kinds, sports.
The Ferrari that we have seen
is a niche competitor.
Why is it?
Because it focuses on a very specific
demographic profile in a segment
in addition to the very small
population that are
mainly men, be it more with
very high incomes.
But the focus can also be geographical.
A competitor, for example, of a
hamburger, a chain of hamburgers
that competes in low cost at the
national level would be a low
cost competitor, leading in cost.
However, you may have
local competitors who are
segmentation or niche strategies
because they have decided
to focus on a specific
geography.
Either the focus or specialization
can also come by the product
and you will understand it very well.
Decathlon is the largest retail
manufacturer in the sports sector
and has an extensive range
of products for all sports.
Well, there are niche competitors
that compete with Decathlon on
specific products.
A bicycle store has
specialized in bicycles,
cycling, cyclists.
Or a basketball store, the same.
Well, we've already defined the first
criterion that is that you have to focus
on something.
We have seen that it can be based
on focusing on a very specific
segment of customers or a
geographical area or a specific
product etc.
But in addition to the segmentation
strategy, there are several types
of segmentation strategy because
as we have seen in addition
to focusing on a customer segment
you have to choose to look for
a competitive advantage that is either
to look for the cost lead in
that segment or try to be the cheapest
or the one that has the lowest
costs or look for differentiation.
I want you to know that I think it
makes more sense in a segmentation
strategy, it makes more sense to
look for differentiation
and I put it to you with the
example of the bike store.
The bike store't make sense
to compete in cost with
Decathlon.
Nothing else is almost impossible.
What it has makes more sense is that by
being more specialized it offers a greater
value, a greater service and covers
more for that.
Let's take examples of
both types.
We will see examples of
segmentation looking for cost leadership
as it could be to imagine
a local management with very
low prices, offers, etc.
It would be to look for
cost-specialized segmentation
or value-specialized as it can
be a competitor of this management
that is a desk, a higher-level
tax advisory with higher
prices, etc.
Or we go to cost specialization.
Imagine a watch manufacturer
focused on a single product,
also focused on very young people,
a clear niche strategy but with
very low prices of about
50 euros, that is, more low
manufacturing costs, etc.
It is specialized in cost.
But luxury watch manufacturers
will also opt for a segmentation
strategy.
They are focusing on a very specific niche.
What happens is that in this case they
do not seek cost specialization,
what they are looking for is differentiation,
it is very clear, isn't it?
Another example, a local restaurant,
a segmentation strategy that is very
focused, because that, in its area
of influence.
But in this case what you are looking for is the
menu of the day, what you are looking for is that
you are chosen for the price.
However, there are other
local restaurants that also compete
in segmentation or niche,
but that in this case does it
seeking differentiation, offering
a higher value, very high prices,
high quality, etc.